---
layout: post
title:	Reflection
date:	2024-12-22
author:	khzher
description: thoughts on my professional life.
ogimage: opengraphimage.jpeg

---
After a pretty sad 3, 4 years starting from the Covid-19 era, things are starting to turn for the better now in 2024.

I spent my early to mid 20s feeling pretty lost and anxious

I am not sure what is it that sucked - maybe its the isolation from Covid, the ruined university experience by having my university time cut short, my mom being sick for so many years, losing my closest high school friend group, losing my mom, getting fired from my job...

All that from when I was 22 ~ 25 years old. In hindsight, it was pretty obvious why I was unhappy. 

**But things are starting to brighten up this year** - I made lots of new friends, found a tribe that I liked, secured a permanent job (with a decent bonus incoming), started engaging in hobbies again, performed the best I ever had in my job, reconnected with some friends, starting re-training my body, and many other good things have happened.

I'm starting to feel like that period where I had goal to chase after in school (at the time, it was basketball). Now, I want to chase after a life of fun, generosity, purpose, responsibility, achievement, and meaning. 

To do that, I need to cultivate myself to be a better person. I have narrowed it down to several things I hate most about myself now: 
**(i) artificial digital stimulation; 
(ii) that I don't put enough effort in making connections; and 
(iii) my short temper - where the best person in my life is bearing the brunt of it.** 

So here is my pledge, I want to do a lifetime quit on these 3 things. Everyday that I don't do (i), (ii), and (iii) would be a day that I lived my life, instead of it living me. 

I am a high agency production person, not a victim. I will not let anything get me down in life, I want to be an eternal optimist, forever grateful for what life has to throw me. A calm, cool, and stoic nature towards life. Take my job and pursuits seriously, but not myself.

Looking forward to 2025 - where I want it to be the best year of my life! Feeling like a passionate protaganist.