---
layout: post
title:	Maxims; What do I want to achieve in the next 6 months?
date:	2024-11-23
author:	khzher
description: Maxims and Goals
ogimage: opengraphimage.jpeg

---

**Maxims**

I have structured each paragraph below as a maxim to follow, the unifying theme is: how to survive and thrive in the corporate world. 

**Keep your professional and personal lives completely separate**. Your co-workers are not your friends, your boss can be a mentor but not a parent-figure. You need to develop a strong personal life. It is also very likely that you are 2 different persons at work vs at home. People have different personalities when speaking 2 different languages, it should be the same for work vs at home.

**Work hard, be a student always**. Most people in their 30s and 40s would start tapering off, and most likely stay as useless middle management. To avoid this, work extremely hard and constantly keep learning. The "Senior" usually aren't that much better at the job than the "Junior", it should take 6 months to be caught up with an unfamiliar environment, work performance would then depend on (i) natural aptitude; (ii) work ethic and attitude; and (iii) your seriousness. At my workplace, the executives are not up to par; they are not good role models to learn from, I have sufficient evidence to hold this view firmly. Do things independently and yourself  (but get views from people who "get it"), learn from the managers.

**Maintain your calm and cool exposure**. Never be afraid of the bigger meeting or talking to seniors. I have always had an independent (some say rebellious) attitude towards senior people. Do not drink the Kool-Aid, think through the problems, communicate very clearly on your stance. Ignore corporate politics and the nay-sayers.

**Emulate leaders.** There are always prominent people in an organization, look closely at what they do, study them, then emulate them to rise.

**Institutional Imperative** . Large companies are bureaucratic and political places, getting things done is the antithesis of large companies. Politics, policies, and procedures are the norm of large companies. That is not an effective way to run things (Hint: look for this counter-signal in companies). Corporate speak is prevalent, e.g: please justify why you deserve a 5% increment this year. The politics of engaging "stakeholders". Artificial hierarchy created within the corporate environment, climbing the corporate ladder. 

**What do I want to achieve in the next 6 months?**

Given my firm view that large corporate are not a place where I can thrive, what should I do to maximize the next 6 months?

Achieve peak physical fitness, completely master business writing and deck making, and try and develop a "thinking space" or routine or a hobby to be completely engrossed in. Be a more complex individual, be prepared to work the hardest you have ever in June 2025. Sign up for classes, build networks and relationships, no bullshit, get things done, communicate directly and in a straightforward manner. 

Work Smarter, not harder. Get your core things done in 3 hours a day, the rest shouldn't be too hard to do. Just monitor responses.

**What do you aspire to be?**
- Professionally Niche - in demand, complex mastery over my niche
- Top 1% Globally (1 million USD net worth)