---
layout: post
title:	Building Great Decks
date:	2024-11-23
author:	khzher
description: tips and tricks for building PowerPoint Decks
ogimage: opengraphimage.jpeg

---
Building decks are about storytelling.

Though analysis and data are important, and the corporate world seems to be obsessed with pure analytical thinking. It is storytelling that plays a much larger role.

Setting the context, framing an issue in light of its environment, persuading various stakeholders to support your proposal.

All are extremely important, regardless of your career.

Decks tell a story, period.

This post consolidates some of my tips and tricks learnt in the past 5 months of building decks. (Nothing fancy or new, but hopefully still useful).

**Before building your deck**

Have a clear storyline, know what the audience wants, structure your story in a pyramid, synthesize the data, tell user the implications.

**SCQA Framework**

Dtands for Situation, Complication, Question, Answer. A good framework to “hang” your story — just like the old Roman orators do so, start with a situation and set the context of your recommendation. Address issues such as (i) where we are now; (ii) what’s going on for this project?

Move on to the Complication — usually there is a tricky issue that needs to be address by your team. Explain the origin of that issue — and say why it is important that it gets resolve.

Questions and Answers — pretty straightforward

**Pyramid Principle**

Frontload your key synthesis statement — should be no more than 15~20 words. Example:

“The Company should acquire startup X in the next 6 months to destroy a key competitor and acquihire its CTO”

The rest of the deck should be broken down to: Context of the situation, why is it in the next 6 months. Who is the CTO and why should we get him.

**One concept per slide**

Every individual slide **has a single message**, one!

Do not have a slide with 2 messages, it is very distracting for both the consumer of the report and the presenter.

Split it into 2 slides — do not clutter the deck.

**Every slide is a table of row and columns**

Even where the deck doesn’t have an actual table, your information should be structured according to invisible rows and columns. Pyramic principle is in play here too. Important messages should have larger font or different colours, supporting data and details should be smaller.

**Further Tips and tricks**

- Learn how to use charts/graphs to get your point across
- Learn PowerPoint shortcuts
- Customize your quick access toolbar
- Steal from great slides